docs/examples/basic_examples/combined_metrics_rewards.mdx, before:

# Combined Metrics Rewards

This guide focuses on reward functions that combine multiple evaluation aspects into a single score. These combined metrics provide a more comprehensive assessment of model responses.

## Introduction to Combined Metrics

In real-world evaluation scenarios, we often want to consider multiple aspects of quality simultaneously. For example:

- Responses should be both accurate AND concise
- Code solutions should be both correct AND efficient
- Explanations should be both clear AND well-structured

Combined metric rewards allow you to assess multiple dimensions in a single reward function with appropriate weightings.

## Available Combined Metric Rewards

### Cosine-Scaled Accuracy + Length Reward

The `cosine_scaled_accuracy_length_reward` function combines accuracy evaluation with length efficiency into a unified score. Note that this function depends on the accuracy detection mechanisms, which may need customization for different types of content through the `extract_fn` and `compare_fn` parameters.

```python
from reward_kit.rewards.accuracy_length import cosine_scaled_accuracy_length_reward

result = cosine_scaled_accuracy_length_reward(
    messages=messages,
    ground_truth="Paris",
    max_length=200,
    correctness_weight=0.7,  # Weight for accuracy component
    length_weight=0.3        # Weight for length component
)
```

#### Key Features

- **Dual Evaluation**: Assesses both factual accuracy and response length
- **Cosine Scaling**: Uses cosine scheduling to reward brevity in correct responses
- **Weighted Components**: Allows customizing the importance of accuracy vs. length
- **Asymmetric Penalties**: Handles correct and incorrect responses differently
  - For correct answers: shorter is better (higher reward)
  - For incorrect answers: longer explanations are penalized less (encouraging showing work)
- **Customizable Parameters**: Flexible configuration for different use cases

#### How It Works

1. **Accuracy Evaluation**:
   - Extracts an answer from the response
   - Compares to ground truth with semantic matching
   - Produces an accuracy score (0.0-1.0)

2. **Length Evaluation**:
   - Counts tokens in the response
   - Applies cosine scaling based on token count vs. max_length
   - Produces a length score (0.0-1.0)

3. **Combined Scoring**:
   - Weighted average of accuracy and length scores
   - Clear separation between correct and incorrect answers
   - Final score prioritizes accuracy while considering length

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Default | Description |
|-----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `messages` | List[Dict/Message] | Required | Conversation messages to evaluate |
| `ground_truth` | str | None | Expected correct answer |
| `extract_fn` | Callable | None | Custom function to extract answer from text |
| `compare_fn` | Callable | None | Custom function to compare answers |
| `max_length` | int | 1000 | Maximum token length for scaling |
| `min_value_wrong` | float | 0.0 | Minimum reward for wrong answers |
| `max_value_wrong` | float | 0.3 | Maximum reward for wrong answers |
| `min_value_correct` | float | 0.5 | Minimum reward for correct answers |
| `max_value_correct` | float | 1.0 | Maximum reward for correct answers |
| `token_method` | str | "whitespace" | Method to count tokens |
| `correctness_weight` | float | 0.7 | Weight for accuracy component |
| `length_weight` | float | 0.3 | Weight for length component |

#### Return Value

An `EvaluateResult` object with:

- **score**: Combined weighted score (0.0-1.0)
- **reason**: Detailed explanation of the evaluation
- **metrics**:
  - **combined_reward**: Overall evaluation result
  - **accuracy**: Accuracy component evaluation
  - **length**: Length component evaluation
  - **token_count**: Token count details

#### Example

```python
from reward_kit.rewards.accuracy_length import cosine_scaled_accuracy_length_reward

# Define test messages
messages = [
    {"role": "user", "content": "What is the capital of France?"},
    {"role": "assistant", "content": "The capital of France is Paris."}
]

# Evaluate with cosine-scaled accuracy + length reward
result = cosine_scaled_accuracy_length_reward(
    messages=messages,
    ground_truth="Paris",
    max_length=200,
    correctness_weight=0.7,
    length_weight=0.3
)

# Print results
print(f"Combined score: {result['score']}")
print(f"Accuracy score: {result['metrics']['accuracy']['score']}")
print(f"Length score: {result['metrics']['length']['score']}")
print(f"Reason: {result['reason']}")
```

#### Use Cases

- **Factual QA**: Reward concise, correct answers over verbose ones
- **Mathematical problems**: Evaluate correctness while encouraging brevity
- **Knowledge retrieval**: Balance accuracy with response length
- **Instruction following**: Ensure responses are both correct and appropriately sized

#### Advanced Configuration

Fine-tune the behavior with these parameter adjustments:

- **Encouraging brevity**: Increase `length_weight` and decrease `max_length`
- **Prioritizing accuracy**: Increase `correctness_weight` and decrease `length_weight`
- **Allowing detailed explanations**: Increase `max_length` while maintaining weighting
- **Strict scoring**: Increase gap between `max_value_wrong` and `min_value_correct`

## Creating Custom Combined Metrics

You can create custom combined metrics by using the `@reward_function` decorator:

```python
from reward_kit.rewards.accuracy import accuracy_reward
from reward_kit.rewards.reasoning_steps import reasoning_steps_reward
from reward_kit import reward_function, RewardOutput, MetricRewardOutput

@reward_function
def accuracy_reasoning_reward(
    messages,
    ground_truth=None,
    accuracy_weight=0.6,
    reasoning_weight=0.4,
    **kwargs
):
    """Combine accuracy and reasoning steps evaluation."""
    # Evaluate accuracy
    accuracy_result = accuracy_reward(
        messages=messages,
        ground_truth=ground_truth
    )

    # Evaluate reasoning steps
    reasoning_result = reasoning_steps_reward(
        messages=messages,
        min_steps=3
    )

    # Calculate combined score
    combined_score = (
        accuracy_weight * accuracy_result["score"] +
        reasoning_weight * reasoning_result["score"]
    )

    # Combine metrics
    metrics = {
        "accuracy": MetricRewardOutput(
            score=accuracy_result["score"],
            reason=accuracy_result["reason"]
        ),
        "reasoning": MetricRewardOutput(
            score=reasoning_result["score"],
            reason=reasoning_result["reason"]
        )
    }

    return RewardOutput(score=combined_score, metrics=metrics)
```

### Tips for Creating Combined Metrics

1. **Choose appropriate weights** based on the relative importance of each component
2. **Ensure scale consistency** across all component metrics (typically 0.0-1.0)
3. **Provide detailed reasons** for each component and the combined score
4. **Handle edge cases** where one component might fail
5. **Document parameters** clearly for users of your combined metric

## Best Practices

When using combined metrics rewards:

1. **Start simple**: Begin with equal weights and adjust based on results
2. **Test on diverse examples**: Ensure your metrics work across different response styles
3. **Avoid too many components**: Two or three aspects is typically optimal
4. **Balance importance**: Set weights to reflect true priorities
5. **Document clearly**: Make sure users understand what each component measures

## Next Steps

- Explore other [out-of-the-box reward functions](reward_functions_overview.md)
- Learn how to [create your own reward functions](../tutorials/creating_your_first_reward_function.md)
- Study [best practices for reward functions](../tutorials/best_practices.md)
- See how to [deploy your reward functions](../developer_guide/evaluation_workflows.md)

Commit message:

rename EvaluateResult&MetricResult success indicator field to is_score_valid

docs/examples/basic_examples/combined_metrics_rewards.mdx, after:

# Combined Metrics Rewards

This guide focuses on reward functions that combine multiple evaluation aspects into a single score. These combined metrics provide a more comprehensive assessment of model responses.

## Introduction to Combined Metrics

In real-world evaluation scenarios, we often want to consider multiple aspects of quality simultaneously. For example:

- Responses should be both accurate AND concise
- Code solutions should be both correct AND efficient
- Explanations should be both clear AND well-structured

Combined metric rewards allow you to assess multiple dimensions in a single reward function with appropriate weightings.

## Available Combined Metric Rewards

### Cosine-Scaled Accuracy + Length Reward

The `cosine_scaled_accuracy_length_reward` function combines accuracy evaluation with length efficiency into a unified score. Note that this function depends on the accuracy detection mechanisms, which may need customization for different types of content through the `extract_fn` and `compare_fn` parameters.

```python
from reward_kit.rewards.accuracy_length import cosine_scaled_accuracy_length_reward

result = cosine_scaled_accuracy_length_reward(
    messages=messages,
    ground_truth="Paris",
    max_length=200,
    correctness_weight=0.7,  # Weight for accuracy component
    length_weight=0.3        # Weight for length component
)
```

#### Key Features

- **Dual Evaluation**: Assesses both factual accuracy and response length
- **Cosine Scaling**: Uses cosine scheduling to reward brevity in correct responses
- **Weighted Components**: Allows customizing the importance of accuracy vs. length
- **Asymmetric Penalties**: Handles correct and incorrect responses differently
  - For correct answers: shorter is better (higher reward)
  - For incorrect answers: longer explanations are penalized less (encouraging showing work)
- **Customizable Parameters**: Flexible configuration for different use cases

#### How It Works

1. **Accuracy Evaluation**:
   - Extracts an answer from the response
   - Compares to ground truth with semantic matching
   - Produces an accuracy score (0.0-1.0)

2. **Length Evaluation**:
   - Counts tokens in the response
   - Applies cosine scaling based on token count vs. max_length
   - Produces a length score (0.0-1.0)

3. **Combined Scoring**:
   - Weighted average of accuracy and length scores
   - Clear separation between correct and incorrect answers
   - Final score prioritizes accuracy while considering length

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Default | Description |
|-----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `messages` | List[Dict/Message] | Required | Conversation messages to evaluate |
| `ground_truth` | str | None | Expected correct answer |
| `extract_fn` | Callable | None | Custom function to extract answer from text |
| `compare_fn` | Callable | None | Custom function to compare answers |
| `max_length` | int | 1000 | Maximum token length for scaling |
| `min_value_wrong` | float | 0.0 | Minimum reward for wrong answers |
| `max_value_wrong` | float | 0.3 | Maximum reward for wrong answers |
| `min_value_correct` | float | 0.5 | Minimum reward for correct answers |
| `max_value_correct` | float | 1.0 | Maximum reward for correct answers |
| `token_method` | str | "whitespace" | Method to count tokens |
| `correctness_weight` | float | 0.7 | Weight for accuracy component |
| `length_weight` | float | 0.3 | Weight for length component |

#### Return Value

An `EvaluateResult` object with:

- **score**: Combined weighted score (0.0-1.0)
- **reason**: Detailed explanation of the evaluation
- **is_score_valid: Indicate if the score is valid and should be used in future training process
- **metrics**:
  - **combined_reward**: Overall evaluation result
  - **accuracy**: Accuracy component evaluation
  - **length**: Length component evaluation
  - **token_count**: Token count details

#### Example

```python
from reward_kit.rewards.accuracy_length import cosine_scaled_accuracy_length_reward

# Define test messages
messages = [
    {"role": "user", "content": "What is the capital of France?"},
    {"role": "assistant", "content": "The capital of France is Paris."}
]

# Evaluate with cosine-scaled accuracy + length reward
result = cosine_scaled_accuracy_length_reward(
    messages=messages,
    ground_truth="Paris",
    max_length=200,
    correctness_weight=0.7,
    length_weight=0.3
)

# Print results
print(f"Combined score: {result['score']}")
print(f"Accuracy score: {result['metrics']['accuracy']['score']}")
print(f"Length score: {result['metrics']['length']['score']}")
print(f"Reason: {result['reason']}")
```

#### Use Cases

- **Factual QA**: Reward concise, correct answers over verbose ones
- **Mathematical problems**: Evaluate correctness while encouraging brevity
- **Knowledge retrieval**: Balance accuracy with response length
- **Instruction following**: Ensure responses are both correct and appropriately sized

#### Advanced Configuration

Fine-tune the behavior with these parameter adjustments:

- **Encouraging brevity**: Increase `length_weight` and decrease `max_length`
- **Prioritizing accuracy**: Increase `correctness_weight` and decrease `length_weight`
- **Allowing detailed explanations**: Increase `max_length` while maintaining weighting
- **Strict scoring**: Increase gap between `max_value_wrong` and `min_value_correct`

## Creating Custom Combined Metrics

You can create custom combined metrics by using the `@reward_function` decorator:

```python
from reward_kit.rewards.accuracy import accuracy_reward
from reward_kit.rewards.reasoning_steps import reasoning_steps_reward
from reward_kit import reward_function, RewardOutput, MetricRewardOutput

@reward_function
def accuracy_reasoning_reward(
    messages,
    ground_truth=None,
    accuracy_weight=0.6,
    reasoning_weight=0.4,
    **kwargs
):
    """Combine accuracy and reasoning steps evaluation."""
    # Evaluate accuracy
    accuracy_result = accuracy_reward(
        messages=messages,
        ground_truth=ground_truth
    )

    # Evaluate reasoning steps
    reasoning_result = reasoning_steps_reward(
        messages=messages,
        min_steps=3
    )

    # Calculate combined score
    combined_score = (
        accuracy_weight * accuracy_result["score"] +
        reasoning_weight * reasoning_result["score"]
    )

    # Combine metrics
    metrics = {
        "accuracy": MetricRewardOutput(
            score=accuracy_result["score"],
            reason=accuracy_result["reason"]
        ),
        "reasoning": MetricRewardOutput(
            score=reasoning_result["score"],
            reason=reasoning_result["reason"]
        )
    }

    return RewardOutput(score=combined_score, metrics=metrics)
```

### Tips for Creating Combined Metrics

1. **Choose appropriate weights** based on the relative importance of each component
2. **Ensure scale consistency** across all component metrics (typically 0.0-1.0)
3. **Provide detailed reasons** for each component and the combined score
4. **Handle edge cases** where one component might fail
5. **Document parameters** clearly for users of your combined metric

## Best Practices

When using combined metrics rewards:

1. **Start simple**: Begin with equal weights and adjust based on results
2. **Test on diverse examples**: Ensure your metrics work across different response styles
3. **Avoid too many components**: Two or three aspects is typically optimal
4. **Balance importance**: Set weights to reflect true priorities
5. **Document clearly**: Make sure users understand what each component measures

## Next Steps

- Explore other [out-of-the-box reward functions](reward_functions_overview.md)
- Learn how to [create your own reward functions](../tutorials/creating_your_first_reward_function.md)
- Study [best practices for reward functions](../tutorials/best_practices.md)
- See how to [deploy your reward functions](../developer_guide/evaluation_workflows.md)
