docs/developer_guide/core_data_types.mdx, before:

# Core Data Types

This guide explains the primary data types used in the Reward Kit, including the input and output structures for reward functions.

## Overview

The Reward Kit uses several core data types to represent:
- Conversation messages
- Evaluation results
- Component metrics

Understanding these types is crucial for creating effective reward functions.

## Message Types

### The `Message` Class

```python
from reward_kit import Message

message = Message(
    role="assistant",
    content="This is the response content",
    name=None,  # Optional
    tool_call_id=None,  # Optional, for tool calling
    tool_calls=None,  # Optional, for tool calling
    function_call=None  # Optional, for function calling
)
```

The `Message` class represents a single message in a conversation and is compatible with the OpenAI message format.

### Message Dictionary Format

When working with reward functions, messages are often passed as dictionaries:

```python
message_dict = {
    "role": "assistant",
    "content": "This is the response content"
}
```

The minimum required fields are:
- `role`: The sender of the message (`"user"`, `"assistant"`, or `"system"`)
- `content`: The text content of the message

Additional fields for function/tool calling may include:
- `name`: Name of the sender (for named system messages)
- `tool_calls`: Tool call information
- `function_call`: Function call information (legacy format)

## Evaluation Output Types

### `EvaluateResult` Class

```python
from reward_kit import EvaluateResult, MetricResult

result = EvaluateResult(
    score=0.75,  # Overall score between 0.0 and 1.0
    reason="The response meets quality requirements",  # Optional explanation
    metrics={    # Component metrics dictionary
        "clarity": MetricResult(
            score=0.8,
            reason="The response is clear and concise"
        ),
        "accuracy": MetricResult(
            score=0.7,
            reason="Contains one minor factual error"
        )
    }
)
```

The `EvaluateResult` class represents the complete result of a reward function evaluation, containing:
- An overall score (typically 0.0 to 1.0)
- An optional reason/explanation for the overall score
- A dictionary of component metrics
- An optional error field for handling evaluation failures

### `MetricResult` Class

```python
from reward_kit import MetricResult

metric = MetricResult(
    score=0.8,  # Score for this specific metric
    reason="Explanation for why this score was assigned",  # Description
    success=True  # Optional success indicator
)
```

The `MetricResult` class represents a single component metric in the evaluation, containing:
- A score value (typically 0.0 to 1.0)
- A reason/explanation for the score
- An optional success flag indicating if this metric evaluation was successful

### Deprecated Output Types

The `RewardOutput` and `MetricRewardOutput` classes are deprecated and will be removed in a future version:

```python
# Deprecated - use EvaluateResult instead
from reward_kit import RewardOutput, MetricRewardOutput

# This will show a deprecation warning
result = RewardOutput(
    score=0.75,
    metrics={
        "clarity": MetricRewardOutput(
            score=0.8,
            reason="The response is clear and concise"
        )
    }
)

# Convert to the preferred EvaluateResult format
evaluate_result = result.to_evaluate_result()
```

## Type Conversion

The Reward Kit provides built-in methods for converting between types:

```python
# Convert EvaluateResult to RewardOutput (for backwards compatibility)
evaluate_result = EvaluateResult(
    score=0.8,
    metrics={"quality": MetricResult(score=0.8, reason="Good quality")}
)
reward_output = evaluate_result.to_reward_output()

# Convert RewardOutput to EvaluateResult
reward_output = RewardOutput(
    score=0.9,
    metrics={"clarity": MetricRewardOutput(score=0.9, reason="Very clear")}
)
evaluate_result = reward_output.to_evaluate_result()
```

## Using Types in Reward Functions

Here's how to use these types properly in your reward functions:

```python
from reward_kit import reward_function, EvaluateResult, MetricResult, Message
from typing import List, Optional, Dict, Any

@reward_function
def my_reward_function(
    messages: List[Dict[str, str]],
    original_messages: Optional[List[Dict[str, str]]] = None,
    metadata: Optional[Dict[str, Any]] = None,
    **kwargs
) -> EvaluateResult:
    """
    Example reward function with proper type annotations.
    """
    # Default values
    metadata = metadata or {}

    # Get the assistant's response
    response = messages[-1].get("content", "")

    # Evaluate the response
    clarity_score = evaluate_clarity(response)

    # Create metrics
    metrics = {
        "clarity": MetricResult(
            score=clarity_score,
            reason=f"Clarity score: {clarity_score:.2f}",
            success=clarity_score >= 0.7  # Optional success indicator
        )
    }

    return EvaluateResult(
        score=clarity_score,
        reason=f"Overall quality assessment: {clarity_score:.2f}",
        metrics=metrics
    )
```

## Best Practices for Data Types

1. **Use EvaluateResult**: Always return EvaluateResult from your reward functions
2. **Use Type Hints**: Include proper type annotations in your functions
3. **Provide Reasons**: Include clear reason strings for both overall score and individual metrics
4. **Use Success Flags**: Set the success flag in MetricResult to indicate pass/fail conditions
5. **Default Values**: Provide defaults for optional parameters
6. **Validation**: Validate input data before processing
7. **Error Handling**: Handle missing or malformed data gracefully
8. **Documentation**: Document the expected format for your inputs and outputs

## Migration from RewardOutput to EvaluateResult

If you have existing code using RewardOutput, here's how to migrate to EvaluateResult:

```python
# Old code (deprecated)
@reward_function
def my_reward(messages, **kwargs):
    # ...
    return RewardOutput(
        score=0.75,
        metrics={
            "clarity": MetricRewardOutput(score=0.8, reason="Clear explanation")
        }
    )

# New code (preferred)
@reward_function
def my_reward(messages, **kwargs):
    # ...
    return EvaluateResult(
        score=0.75,
        reason="Overall assessment",  # Add an overall reason
        metrics={
            "clarity": MetricResult(
                score=0.8,
                reason="Clear explanation",
                success=True  # Add success flag if applicable
            )
        }
    )
```

## Next Steps

Now that you understand the core data types:

1. Learn about [Evaluation Workflows](evaluation_workflows.md) for testing and deploying your functions
2. Explore [Advanced Reward Functions](../examples/advanced_reward_functions.md) to see these types in action
3. Check the [API Reference](../api_reference/data_models.md) for complete details on all data types

Commit message:

rename EvaluateResult&MetricResult success indicator field to is_score_valid

docs/developer_guide/core_data_types.mdx, after:

# Core Data Types

This guide explains the primary data types used in the Reward Kit, including the input and output structures for reward functions.

## Overview

The Reward Kit uses several core data types to represent:
- Conversation messages
- Evaluation results
- Component metrics

Understanding these types is crucial for creating effective reward functions.

## Message Types

### The `Message` Class

```python
from reward_kit import Message

message = Message(
    role="assistant",
    content="This is the response content",
    name=None,  # Optional
    tool_call_id=None,  # Optional, for tool calling
    tool_calls=None,  # Optional, for tool calling
    function_call=None  # Optional, for function calling
)
```

The `Message` class represents a single message in a conversation and is compatible with the OpenAI message format.

### Message Dictionary Format

When working with reward functions, messages are often passed as dictionaries:

```python
message_dict = {
    "role": "assistant",
    "content": "This is the response content"
}
```

The minimum required fields are:
- `role`: The sender of the message (`"user"`, `"assistant"`, or `"system"`)
- `content`: The text content of the message

Additional fields for function/tool calling may include:
- `name`: Name of the sender (for named system messages)
- `tool_calls`: Tool call information
- `function_call`: Function call information (legacy format)

## Evaluation Output Types

### `EvaluateResult` Class

```python
from reward_kit import EvaluateResult, MetricResult

result = EvaluateResult(
    score=0.75,  # Overall score between 0.0 and 1.0
    reason="The response meets quality requirements",  # Optional explanation
    is_score_valid=True,
    metrics={    # Component metrics dictionary
        "clarity": MetricResult(
            is_score_valid=True,
            score=0.8,
            reason="The response is clear and concise"
        ),
        "accuracy": MetricResult(
            score=0.7,
            reason="Contains one minor factual error",
            is_score_valid=True
        )
    }
)
```

The `EvaluateResult` class represents the complete result of a reward function evaluation, containing:
- An overall score (typically 0.0 to 1.0)
- An optional reason/explanation for the overall score
- A dictionary of component metrics
- An optional error field for handling evaluation failures

### `MetricResult` Class

```python
from reward_kit import MetricResult

metric = MetricResult(
    score=0.8,  # Score for this specific metric
    reason="Explanation for why this score was assigned",  # Description
    is_score_valid=True  # Success indicator, if you want to use this score for rl training
)
```

The `MetricResult` class represents a single component metric in the evaluation, containing:
- A score value (typically 0.0 to 1.0)
- A reason/explanation for the score
- An is_score_valid flag indicating if this metric evaluation is valid for RL training

### Deprecated Output Types

The `RewardOutput` and `MetricRewardOutput` classes are deprecated and will be removed in a future version:

```python
# Deprecated - use EvaluateResult instead
from reward_kit import RewardOutput, MetricRewardOutput

# This will show a deprecation warning
result = RewardOutput(
    score=0.75,
    metrics={
        "clarity": MetricRewardOutput(
            score=0.8,
            reason="The response is clear and concise"
        )
    }
)

# Convert to the preferred EvaluateResult format
evaluate_result = result.to_evaluate_result()
```

## Type Conversion

The Reward Kit provides built-in methods for converting between types:

```python
# Convert EvaluateResult to RewardOutput (for backwards compatibility)
evaluate_result = EvaluateResult(
    score=0.8,
    metrics={"quality": MetricResult(score=0.8, reason="Good quality", is_score_valid=True)},
    is_score_valid=True
)
reward_output = evaluate_result.to_reward_output()

# Convert RewardOutput to EvaluateResult
reward_output = RewardOutput(
    score=0.9,
    metrics={"clarity": MetricRewardOutput(score=0.9, reason="Very clear")}
)
evaluate_result = reward_output.to_evaluate_result()
```

## Using Types in Reward Functions

Here's how to use these types properly in your reward functions:

```python
from reward_kit import reward_function, EvaluateResult, MetricResult, Message
from typing import List, Optional, Dict, Any

@reward_function
def my_reward_function(
    messages: List[Dict[str, str]],
    original_messages: Optional[List[Dict[str, str]]] = None,
    metadata: Optional[Dict[str, Any]] = None,
    **kwargs
) -> EvaluateResult:
    """
    Example reward function with proper type annotations.
    """
    # Default values
    metadata = metadata or {}

    # Get the assistant's response
    response = messages[-1].get("content", "")

    # Evaluate the response
    clarity_score = evaluate_clarity(response)

    # Create metrics
    metrics = {
        "clarity": MetricResult(
            score=clarity_score,
            reason=f"Clarity score: {clarity_score:.2f}",
            is_score_valid=clarity_score >= 0.7
        )
    }

    return EvaluateResult(
        score=clarity_score,
        is_score_valid=True,
        reason=f"Overall quality assessment: {clarity_score:.2f}",
        metrics=metrics
    )
```

## Best Practices for Data Types

1. **Use EvaluateResult**: Always return EvaluateResult from your reward functions
2. **Use Type Hints**: Include proper type annotations in your functions
3. **Provide Reasons**: Include clear reason strings for both overall score and individual metrics
4. **Use is_score_valid**: Set the is_score_valid flag in MetricResult to indicate pass/fail or validity conditions
5. **Default Values**: Provide defaults for optional parameters
6. **Validation**: Validate input data before processing
7. **Error Handling**: Handle missing or malformed data gracefully
8. **Documentation**: Document the expected format for your inputs and outputs

## Migration from RewardOutput to EvaluateResult

If you have existing code using RewardOutput, here's how to migrate to EvaluateResult:

```python
# Old code (deprecated)
@reward_function
def my_reward(messages, **kwargs):
    # ...
    return RewardOutput(
        score=0.75,
        metrics={
            "clarity": MetricRewardOutput(score=0.8, reason="Clear explanation")
        }
    )

# New code (preferred)
@reward_function
def my_reward(messages, **kwargs):
    # ...
    return EvaluateResult(
        score=0.75,
        reason="Overall assessment",  # Add an overall reason
        is_score_valid=True,
        metrics={
            "clarity": MetricResult(
                score=0.8,
                reason="Clear explanation",
                is_score_valid=True  # Add is_score_valid flag if applicable
            )
        }
    )
```

## Next Steps

Now that you understand the core data types:

1. Learn about [Evaluation Workflows](evaluation_workflows.md) for testing and deploying your functions
2. Explore [Advanced Reward Functions](../examples/advanced_reward_functions.md) to see these types in action
3. Check the [API Reference](../api_reference/data_models.md) for complete details on all data types
